1. Squeamish

1 Easily made to feel sick or disgusted.



Examples: 

‘I've always been squeamish about bugs’

‘Oddly, eating meat didn't make me feel squeamish or sick.’

‘The squeamish and easily offended will find a lot to complain about, but what's new?’

‘Most Africans have a very close relationship with the land, even the city people, who are squeamish about bugs and scared to death of gorillas.’

‘They might get squeamish at the sight of blood or faint when thinking about it or are looking at it.’

‘There was also evidence before the jury that Adams was not a violent man and was squeamish at the sight of blood.’

‘Now I might just warn you girls, if you are squeamish and don't like the sight of men in the raw, then don't bother to check the link.’

‘I am actually quite squeamish and don't like the sight of blood.’

‘I'm not squeamish, and it was fascinating to watch the incision and lifting out of the uterus, but when the puppies themselves were brought into the world, it was too much for me.’

‘Daddy has a Robert De Niro kind of understated menace and when you see him at work with his barber's blade, the effect is to make your internal organs shrink with squeamish empathy.’

‘For those who are not squeamish, balut is a ripe duck egg containing a one-week-old chick, boiled in water for 10 to 15 minutes and then served as it is.’

‘‘It was very well made, but not for the squeamish,’ he said.’

‘But at least the liberal men should feel squeamish about it.’

‘Now I can tell you right here there was no pain involved, but if you're squeamish about things happening to eyes, then change channels right now…’

‘I can only note that the English-language press is far more squeamish about publishing grisly images than their continental European cousins.’

‘The squeamish will be relieved to know that all surgery and injections are carried out while the aircraft are on the ground because the risk of turbulence is too high to perform operations in flight.’

‘I didn't mind eating the meat at all, but at that age I was just a little bit too squeamish to join in enthusiastically gnawing away at the poor little bunny's bones.’

‘If you're squeamish about insects, skip this story.’

‘Bear with me while I list them, and apologies to the squeamish.’

‘‘I'm never squeamish and I don't usually get upset when I see a body,’ she says.’



1.1 Having fastidious moral views; scrupulous.



Examples: 

‘she was not squeamish about using her social influence in support of her son’

‘Is it that the United States has grown more moral in the last 50 years - or, depending on your point of view, more squeamish?’

‘In their boasts, dissidents are lady-killers; in their writings, they are squeamish, priggish, and prudish.’

‘What interrogation tactics would make both the FBI and the CIA squeamish about their field officers' participation?’

‘In short, they are not squeamish or unduly troubled by conscience when it comes to hurting us two-legged animals.’

‘The battle we really are engaged in - and we are too squeamish to describe - is against a particular brand of fundamentalism.’

‘In particular, is the U.S. media too squeamish about running photos of dead and wounded soldiers?’

‘So it's strange, therefore, and not a little paranoid of the family to be squeamish about the book, because the only truly unflattering portrait painted here is that of its author.’

‘While much of the population understandably gets squeamish at the idea of businesses making money out of the elderly and the disadvantaged, there is a market that has to be served.’

‘Is there anyone else who is squeamish about this sort of public investigation into a nominee's personal religious beliefs?’

‘It's clear that if the regime thinks it can get away with murdering foreign journalists it won't be squeamish about dealing with its internal opposition.’

‘Thomson accepts, however, that the British are still somewhat squeamish about the sight of the very rich being congratulated about doing good.’

‘‘We'll have to think about transferring some suspects to our less squeamish allies,’ he says.’

‘I oppose the death penalty, but not for Stephen's squeamish reasons that one innocent person in 100 might get hanged, My opposition is more visceral than that.’



Related Forms: 

unsqueamishly, adverb
oversqueamishly, adverb
unsqueamishness, noun
oversqueamishness, noun
unsqueamish, adjective
squeamishly, adverb
oversqueamish, adjective
squeamishness, noun



French: 

 hypersensible
 je ne supporte pas la vue du sang
 ceilm n'est pas conseillé aux âmes sensibles



2. Fastidious

1 Very attentive to and concerned about accuracy and detail.



Examples: 

‘she dressed with fastidious care’

‘In its overall design and fastidious attention to detail, the table reflects the concept of presenting a useful, industrially produced object that is a work of art.’

‘He plays it deadpan, with impeccable style and fastidious attention to detail, but of course that only enhances the absurdity.’

‘Aside from this fastidious attention to detail, the designer's work has few distinguishing features.’

‘He's a detail man, obsessively fastidious to the point that he still handles the steady-cam himself, to get those shots just right.’

‘He is eloquent at description, fastidious about mythic details, but reticent about his personal life.’

‘His playing is not only passionately alluring but also remarkably fastidious to the slightest detail in the scores.’

‘I was struck by the fastidious care with which the parties divided up the cost of the vacations they took together; sometimes calculations were made to the penny.’

‘For the fastidious reader interested in precise historical accuracy, these flaws are very substantial.’

‘He had to carefully attend to each customer's fastidious demands.’

‘The central characters are fastidious, scrupulous and articulate.’

‘Why does a conductor so fastidious and precise with an orchestra always seem so blithely undisturbed by such unidiomatic, out-of-tune singing?’

‘A first-year student at Williams may well become frustrated with such fastidious nit-picking.’

‘He made relatively few films and gained the reputation of being a fastidious and sometimes ruthless perfectionist.’

‘They want you to do everything to them, but then are too fastidious to name it.’

‘Why be so fastidious in dealing with the likes of Norman?’

‘In retrospect, I wish I had been more fastidious.’

‘His appearance strikes me as unusual for a middle-aged man - overly fastidious and somehow too calculated.’

‘I've looked for holes in the armor but Donaldson's too fastidious.’

‘This Prime Minister, who is so fastidious about all matters, says that she was happy to leave the judgment on this issue up to her electorate office staff.’

‘The owner of our company is pretty fastidious in choosing products that are naturally and environmentally sound.’



1.1 Very concerned about matters of cleanliness.



Examples: 

‘the child seemed fastidious about getting her fingers dirty’

‘It does not matter how fastidious one is, how thoroughly and often one washes one's hands or even how many vitamins one takes, one is still likely to get sick from long-haul air travel.’

‘He always loves to have everything very chic and polished and fastidious.’

‘When I started cleaning carpets, I realized early that my standards of cleaning weren't up to the level of some of the highly fastidious clients I was attracting.’

‘Paul was fastidious when it came to cleanliness.’

‘The mouse genome, it seems, is more fastidious with its housecleaning than the human.’

‘One or two buckets will do for a clean bath for even the most fastidious person.’

‘The food may be healthy, but the conditions under which it's made are far from the standards demanded by fastidious Westerners.’



Related Forms: 

nonfastidiously, adverb
ultrafastidious, adjective
ultrafastidiousness, noun
unfastidious, adjective
hyperfastidiousness, noun
nonfastidious, adjective
overfastidiousness, noun
unfastidiously, adverb
hyperfastidious, adjective
unfastidiousness, noun
hyperfastidiously, adverb
nonfastidiousness, noun
overfastidious, adjective
fastidiously, adverb
ultrafastidiously, adverb
fastidiousness, noun
overfastidiously, adverb



French: 

 tatillon, pointilleux
 méticuleux, minutieux
 minutieux
 il est d'une coquetterie méticuleuse
 méticuleux, maniaque



3. Scrupulous

1 (of a person or process) careful, thorough, and extremely attentive to details.



Examples: 

‘the research has been carried out with scrupulous attention to detail’

‘This is always an issue for the scrupulous scholar - what to enlarge upon, what to jettison - but this is the only equivocation about this impressive book, written with both passion and clarity.’

‘She is scrupulous about disclosing her sources and acknowledging her debts while insistent that her aesthetic judgments are based on what she has looked at hard and pondered.’

‘However, right at the beginning he is scrupulous in distinguishing the two terms.’

‘Both he and Taylor are scrupulous in conveying how the photographs would have looked to Dodgson's audience.’

‘To be sure, Meyer makes such large-scale historical revisions and theoretical shifts only implicitly and through the lens of scrupulous historical detail.’

‘Probably the most painstaking part of the job is the scrupulous documentation process.’

‘Weinberg's strengths as an art historian owe largely to his scrupulous attention to the visual field.’

‘Individually and as a group, Cubist images demand the viewer's scrupulous attention.’

‘He seems as active in the process now as he ever was, appropriately scrupulous in the crediting and remembering of what was given, by whom and when.’

‘You sense only the labor-intensive detailing of a boat modeler, no doubt scrupulous but also antiquarian.’

‘Their compositions were symmetrical and bathed in an even light; only perfect examples of cultivars in full bloom were included, and individual blooms were painted with scrupulous accuracy.’

‘The first ‘Station’ gives us a curved cross suspended from a short, rusty chain, the figure in lean, scrupulous profile.’

‘It has never been so scrupulous in its methods, so inclusive in the questions it asks - and so incurious about what might be called the aesthetic life of a building.’

‘The effects of such scrupulous husbandry are manifest by the way in which the cultivated and natural landscape merge into one another in a rare reciprocity.’

‘He periodically returns to a monochromatic style, punctuated by scrupulous forays into vivid chromatic declarations.’

‘In those days Bob was scrupulous about fully crediting Gerry - and appropriately crediting everyone in the office.’

‘Ghost World and The Royal Tenenbaums would not be among my favorites for the year if not for their scrupulous production design.’

‘The scrupulous fabrication of the low-relief wall ensembles in this show approaches the perverse.’

‘Brown is scrupulous in presenting what is, and what is not, known about these situations.’

‘He inherited standards of economy in design and of scrupulous execution from Domenico Veneziano and Fra Angelico, though he lacked the imaginative powers of either.’



1.1 Very concerned to avoid doing wrong.



Examples: 

‘she's too scrupulous to have an affair with a married man’

‘This research provides evidence that developing a corporate culture that stresses honesty and scrupulous behavior is not only the right thing to do, but produces real savings to the cooperative as well.’

‘The title's meanings remain only provisionally understood, but the term's significance was bound up in notions of learning, the righteousness of tradition, and the scrupulous observance of ritual obligation.’

‘Seeking to protect his pregnant wife, gangster Gui decides to give himself up to the authorities, only to find his act of self-sacrifice results in the loss of everything to less scrupulous rivals.’



Related Forms: 

hyperscrupulous, adjective
hyperscrupulousness, noun
scrupulously, adverb
hyperscrupulosity, noun
hyperscrupulously, adverb
scrupulousness, noun
underscrupulous, adjective
underscrupulously, adverb
scrupulosity  [skroo-pyuh-los-i-tee] /ˌskru pyəˈlɒs ɪ ti/, scrupulousness, noun



French: 

 scrupuleux, méticuleux
 elle prête une attention scrupuleuse à laaçon dont elle s'habille
 ils tiennent beaucoup à la ponctualité
 scrupuleux



